Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Join the union!
Workers' rights for all!
Ladies and gentlemen who will
protect you if war breaks out
and Selfridge goes back to America?
Oi! Watch what you're doing. You all
right?
I beg your pardon, miss. No harm
done, I hope?
I'm fine thank you.
Come on, I'll walk with you.
Morning, Mr. Crabb.
Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Crabb.
Unions causing trouble all over the
country.
You go ahead. I'll deal with this.
Sorry, mate, can't take it.
Can I have a moment of your time?
Won't hurt you to read it.
If you have to fight for your country,
you'll want a union to comeback to.
Come along, ladies.
Gentlemen, can I interest you in one
of these?
If there's war, why does we have to
get involved?
I don't know. I don't understand any
of it.
With all this trouble in Europe, Mr.
Selfridge might decide to go back to
America.
He wouldn't, would he?
What's stopping him?
His family live there most of the
time as it is.
But what about us? Our jobs?
Mr. Selfridge isn't going anywhere.
Listen to me!
We've had quite enough excitement for
one morning.
Now hurry along to your stations,
please, quietly and with decorum.
It was a peaceful demonstration but
the message was clear enough.
The staff know our position on trade
unions: we take care of our own.
We do, but we're in the minority.
Workers are protesting all over
London.
Dissatisfaction spreads.
Well, our people feel secure enough.
Rumors have started, Mr. Selfridge.
What rumors?
There's a notion
that you may return to America.
That's ludicrous.
Where's Mr. Grove?
I'm sure he's on the shop floor
doing his rounds.
We must reassure the staff
immediately.
Miss Plunkett, arrange a heads of
department meeting as soon as
possible.
And get Mr. Grove up here.
Mr. Grove, you're late.
Mr. Crabb, apprise Mr. Grove of the
situation.
I want to see you in my office in
five minutes.
You couldn't wait till I got in?
I was trying to cover for you.
And not for the first time, Mr.
Grove.
These are Mr. Selfridge's requirements
for this week's promotional displays.
Menswear, Haberdashery, Outdoor
Equipment. Top priority.
Er... Thank you, Miss Plunkett.
And you're needed at a head of
departments meeting in 15 minutes.
Never a dull moment.
We need to reassure the staff.
We've always looked out for our own.
We always will.
Yes, Mr. Selfridge.
Good of you to join us, Miss Towler.
Sorry, Mr. Selfridge.
With the stock market already in
turmoil.
Your pencil, Miss Towler.
Now, with the stock market in
turmoil,
if our staff are jittery and the
morale is low
what does that say to our suppliers
and our buyers?
What I need to do is distract people
from what's really going on.
I need ideas? What do you have?
Anyone? Miss Towler?
We could have a dance!
How about a tango demonstration here
in the store?
All the girls love the tango
and Senor Gomerez is performing at
Delphine's.
Oh, he's meant to be amazing!
That's an excellent idea. I love it.
Inspired thinking, Miss Hawkins.
And maybe... a staff party afterwards?
I like it. Very good thinking.
We'll book the Palm Court,
no expense spared, for tomorrow evening.
Get a hold of Delphine's and book
the dancers.
Now, we need something to raise the
spirit of the public as well.
Something... big and British.
An Empire exhibition!
We could put something on in the Palm
Court.
If that's all right with Mr. Colleano,
of course.
Fine, Miss Towler.
Something simple, low-key but
effective.
A display of photographs, merchandise
and maps?
Something a little more colorful
and entertaining. Think about it.
Thank you all for your time.
Excellent idea, Miss Hawkins.
And I hope your Palm Court exhibition
does justice to Mr. Selfridge's grand
vision, Miss Towler.
But you can only do what you can do.
Well, I'm looking forward to getting
out of London.
It's so dreadfully hot.
Isn't it?
And everyone's in such a stew about
war.
Thoroughly dull, I agree.
Yes, the country holds particular
attractions at the moment.
And... will Lord Loxley be staying in
town, my lady?
Yes, Pimble.
Loxley will not be coming with us.
Am I disturbing you?
Yes... thank goodness.
To hell with accounts. I
can't make them balance anyway.
Too much money going out and
not enough coming in.
Why is it always that way round?
I did mean it, you know, about
investing in the club.
Oh, thank you.
Well, it's a lovely offer
and I have given it serious
consideration.
But friendship and business do not go
together.
Well, they should.
They should go hand in hand. So I'm
not giving up on this one.
I'm flattered.
But I'm holding firm.
For now.
Actually it's, erm... friendship that
brings me here.
I might be completely wrong but when
I was here the other night,
I thought I saw someone that I know.
His name's Henri Leclair.
Henri Leclair?
That name rings a bell.
Was that the man last week asking
lots of questions?
Didn't he leave his address?
Yeah. He left this.
What would you want with him?
He used to work with Harry.
They were close once.
Are you sure, Rose? Because that's a
rough area.
Oh, I've got a tougher streak than
you might think.
Oh, by the way, Harry's secretary has
arranged for our guest, Senor
Gomerez,
to do a tango demonstration for the
staff at the store. Oh.
But I was rather hoping that you
could get them to hold it here.
You can appreciate that it'd be very
good for business.
And I do throw a good party, if I say
so myself.
I'll see what I can do.
Thanks, darling.
Do I get to keep everything?
Everything.
Even the ruby necklace?
Especially the ruby necklace.
I hope you'll miss me.
I hope I don't... too much.
Well, you know where to find me if
you change your mind. Mm.
Cancel Miss Spender's account,
please.
Actually... cancel all their accounts.
All of them?
Yes.
Telephone Mrs. Selfridge and let her
know I'll be home early for dinner.
May I use some of our cosmetics for
the party, Miss Hawkins?
Oh, I should think so.
Miss Hawkins, how are you today?
Not one bit shaken by the
demonstration this morning.
If that's what you're wondering, Mr.
Edwards.
You're looking for a story, I
presume?
As a matter of fact, I'm here to
find a present for a very special
lady.
Well, in that case, I'll leave you
in Miss Pertree's capable hands.
Might I know something about her
coloring, sir?
Well, one day her hair is golden.
A shaft of sunlight and voilà it
turns crimson.
Sometimes her lips are pink petal
smooth.
Other times there's a pearly sheen.
Blue eyes.
But then sometimes there's a hue of
violet.
She's a difficult lady to pin down.
But I'm sure I'll manage in time.
She sounds lovely, sir.
She is.
A new perfume from the House of
Guerlain, perhaps?
I'm sure she'd like that.
Well, that looks erm...
Yardley facial cream.
Top of the range.
Penhaligon soap, her complexion could
be quite sensitive,
from what you describe.
Lady Primrose hand lotion.
She'll love the presentation.
And the extra expense.
If she's as hard to pin down as you
say, sir,
you'll have to work all the harder,
won't you?
If she's such a catch.
Thank you for a very valuable lesson
in my wooing approach.
You're quite welcome.
Everybody has something to learn.
I need you to get me in a room with
your shopkeeper friend.
And why would I do that?
There's a war coming.
The military will need supplies.
He's the man to consult.
Arrange a meeting and I'll take it
from there.
How can you expect him to help you
after the way you behaved?
Just do as I say.
It will be to our mutual advantage.
Trust me.
That's the problem, Loxley. I never
have.
You might find the country house a
tad crowded.
It's been leased to a Dutch
industrialist as of yesterday.
Chap likes fishing, apparently.
You should have seen it, Mother.
Charlie Chaplin's the funniest fellow
ever.
He starts the film drunk as
anything...
Falls over, then puts his hat onto
some poor woman's head.
What's it called? Tango Tangles?
Why is that?
Because it's set in a music hall.
Oh!
Come with us next time. You'd love
it.
Oh, that sounds so fun. I will. I
will. It's a date.
Night, Harry.
I miss us.
I love you, Rose.
No matter what happened in the past,
I want you to know that.
I know you're lonely sometimes.
But that's for you to deal with.
When you're in the States, it's not
just the house that feels empty.
Harry... I can't give you everything
again.
I'll just end up with a little less
of me each time.
I don't want to hate you. There
isn't anybody but you now, Rose.
Good morning, little one.
Why, hello, Mr. Crabb.
Hello, Mrs. Grove.
I haven't seen you for ages. How
nice.
We hardly ever see anybody.
Roger's always on about what good
friends you are.
How are you these days?
In my element, Mr. Crabb.
How could I not be with my little
angels around me?
I thought I'd come this way
to work today. Walk in with you.
Goodbye, my dear.
Goodbye.
Well? I'm waiting to be frog marched
in.
I was trying to help, Mr. Grove.
I don't need help!
It's about fully respecting workers.
Don't you need to go to a meeting
before signing up?
You don't need to do any of that.
Just come along when ever you want.
Gentlemen you're trespassing on
private property.
We uphold the law, Mr...?
Towler. George Towler.
Arnold Huxton. Just letting London
workers know what we could offer
them.
Look, I'm all for unions...
where they're needed.
But I've worked here five years and
we rub along just fine without one.
Take a look at our
vision for the future.
We have a booth by Bond Street
Station if you want to get in touch.
Thank you, Mr. Huxton.
Pleasure.
Thank you very much.
Gents.
Rose!
Hey, Harry.
Good afternoon, Mr. Selfridge.
Black coffee, Franco, thank you.
Have you thought about what I said
last night?
Harry, I just thought it would be
nice to take afternoon coffee with
you. That's all.
Hm.
That'll do me for now.
What? I have the feeling you have
something to ask me?
Delphine wondered if you'd hold the
staff party in her Club.
What do you think?
It makes more sense to have it here.
A store event for people that work
here.
But Harry, it would be such a treat
for them.
I'm not sure. I mean, Delphine would
have to get it absolutely right.
Well, she'd have every incentive to.
I'm thinking of investing in the
club.
Investing in her club?
Mm-hm.
You think that's a wise move?
Well, it's early days. We're still
negotiating.
Now, what about this party, mm?
Well, only because it's you...
I'll consider it.
Miss Towler?
Yes, Mr. Thackeray.
You were supposed to be at the
Fashion Department.
Oh... ten minutes ago.
Erm... Yes.
I-I'm sorry, Mr. Thackeray. It's just
I've got an awful lot on.
The luggage window display, the Palm
Court...
I will get to you today, I promise.
Let's say five o'clock. After
closing.
Busy, busy bee, aren't we?
I look forward to seeing you then.
Hello, Henri.
Rose.
It's been a long time.
What are you doing here?
Do you mind if I come in?
Erm... no.
How did you find me?
I thought I saw you at Delphine's.
At Delphine's? What were you doing at
Delphine's?
She's a friend of mine.
Really?
You look well, Henri.
You don't need to lie, Rose.
A lot's changed since I saw you
last.
Harry's changed.
New York didn't work out for you?
No.
I'm sorry.
Get out, get out.
I understand about that -
about... things not working out.
You've got money, family, security.
What exactly hasn't worked out for
you, Rose?
I'm not here to talk about me.
I'm here to talk about Harry.
He misses you. He feels very badly
about the way you two parted.
If he feels so bad, why is it you are
here and not him?
He doesn't know that I'm here.
Harry really needs a true friend.
And forgive me, Henri, but it looks
like...
What?
Well, it looks like you could do
with a friend too.
I don't need charity.
Henri, just... Why don't you let
Harry help you?
I don't need Harry's help. I don't
care if I never see him again.
Please, Rose.
Goodbye.
Miss Towler, at last.
I said I'd get here, Mr. Thackeray.
Indeed you did. And almost on time.
In fact, I've requested Mr.
Selfridge's presence for our
meeting.
And here he is now.
Mr. Selfridge, thank you for giving
us a moment of your valuable time.
What's this about, Thackeray?
I've been thinking about your Empire
idea. Thinking hard, Mr. Selfridge.
And?
Why not roll the idea out storewide?
Every department. Showcase the best
of Britain and the colonies
from the stationary department to up
here in fashion.
I like it.
Make it a week long festival
of all that is truly great about the
Empire.
We'd be saying that you can trust us
at Selfridge's to put our best foot
forward at all times.
And that we're here to stay.
Trust, Mr. Selfridge.
That's what people sorely lack in
these uncertain times.
It's good thinking.
A little more than you bargained for,
Miss Towler.
Can you handle it?
Of course, Mr. Selfridge.
Excellent.
I look forward to all of your ideas.
As do I.
Do let me know if I can...
assist you in any way at all.
Good morning, Mae.
Have you arranged my meeting with
Selfridge? Mm.
I spoke to his secretary.
He's traveling.
Very busy man.
I hope that you're not lying to me,
Mae.
What are you going to do?
Blackmail me?
As you blackmailed your friend?
Don't play games with me.
You will smooth everything over with
Selfridge.
Never forget...
all you have...
is the Loxley name.
I can take it from you like that.
Hello, Victor.
I've ordered white lilies for the
Champagne Bar.
Sounds good.
And for the Empire Exhibition...
I've... I've got some ideas for
designs.
I was thinking we could put display
cabinets all along this wall.
And hang mounted photographs here.
And erm...
Maybe drape flags from the ceiling
or...
Erm... I'm sorry.
I know that it was my idea to use
your restaurant for the exhibition.
I just thought that a contained area
would be an easier space to dress.
Sounds like you've got a lot on your
plate.
But you seem to be coping well
enough.
Actually, I'm finding it all rather
daunting.
Same here from time to time.
Excuse me.
Oh, yes, of course.
Sorry. I didn't mean to take up your
time unnecessarily.
Late finish, early start.
The perils of running your own
business.
Looks different during the day.
I didn't know that you'd been here
before.
Rose said it wasn't your thing.
She tells me that you offered to host
the party for my staff.
That's a pretty big money-making
venture for you.
I won't lie to you, I'm pretty skint
at the moment.
And an event like that would help,
yes.
Unlike you, Mr. Selfridge, I can't go
to the bank to borrow.
An unmarried woman has no leverage.
Well, I have to think about my store.
About the Selfridge name.
I don't want anything to bring that
into disrepute.
Are you talking about the store
or your wife now?
Both.
Rose told me that she's thinking
about investing in this club.
That was her idea, not mine. I don't
think it would work.
But she was pretty excited about it.
Rose is a little bit restless at the
moment.
Can I give you some advice?
Miss Day... we've had our problems.
But we will sort them out.
If you love her, trust her.
Thank you very much. I'll keep that
in mind.
But I am going to tell you something.
I think that I know my wife a lot
better than you do.
Signing up, are you?
Just interested.
You're all right. You've got your pa
to look out for your interests.
Now, come on, Dave. He's down here
learning from scratch, ain't he?
All I was saying, Mr. Towler, is if
he's got the right
to read that pamphlet, so do we.
That's right Ed. My dad swears by his
union.
We should at least have the right to
talk about joining one.
You two need to get a grip.
And if you're so unhappy, go and
speak to Mr. Grove.
See what he has to say about it.
Yeah, well, maybe we'll do just
that.
Yeah, maybe we will.
Come on.
Yeah.
W-We're here to formally ask for the
right to investigate entry
to the trade union for warehouse
workers.
You knew our policy with regard to
that when you sought employment.
We already have a staff council if
you need something addressed.
Well, yes, but... can't we even -
There's been no change of policy.
Now return to your stations, please.
Selfridge can shove his party.
Tell the lads gather in the loading
bay at seven this evening.
Oh, I will.
Gordon. Everything all right?
I think some of the men see your
party as a way of buying them off
from talking to the unions.
I don't mean it that way.
I just thought you should know.
Son, there'll be days when you'll sit
in that chair
when it'll seem like you just can't
do right for doing wrong.
So what do I do, then?
You do what you think is right.
And then you pay the price if you get
it wrong.
'My dear Lady Mae, you're greatly
missed at the store.
Please join us for a social gathering
at Delphine's.
I'll send a car.'
It appears that he's returned from
his travels.
Delphine's? I'm not going.
Oh, you're going.
And what's more...
..I'm coming with you.
I can't believe we're going to
Delphine's tonight!
I've borrowed tortoise shell hair
combs
and a fan trimmed with Spanish lace
from accessories.
Nice to be open about wearing rouge,
Grace.
About time us girls didn't have to
keep our personals secret.
You're so daring, Jessie. How d'you
do it?
I just look to see how Miss Hawkins
does things.
One of you lucky ladies might get a
dance tonight.
You might be the one who
gets lucky, Mr. Colleano.
Ooh! Playing hard to get are we,
Miss Pertree?
Evening.
Ah! Do you want a ride to the party,
son?
Actually, I've got a lot to catch up
on here.
Is that true or are you getting
pressure from the men down here?
I can make up my own mind.
Well, I'd like you to be there.
No shame in changing your mind if you
decide to come.
Thank you.
Nice enough, I suppose.
If my mam saw me in this place, I'd
be back in the Valleys faster than I
could pack a bag.
Mind you don't crack it. Seven years'
bad luck.
No cracking mirrors tonight, Victor.
I'm feeling lucky.
This is a works do. So it's still
Mr. Colleano to you.
Evening, chaps.
Evening.
Mr. Arnold Huxton is here to tell us
what signing up for the Warehouse
Workers' Union can do for us.
It is a pleasure to see so many of
you here.
This is your party,
so leave your cares behind at the
door for one night.
It won't change the future
but we will face whatever comes our
way together.
Understand we are here for you when
nobody else is.
In these uncertain times, who is
looking out for the rights of the
workers?
How are your interests protected
if not by us?
It may be my name on the door...
but behind that door, you are the
ones who matter.
So eat, drink and be merry.
That is an order.
♪ El Choclo
For now, we are just looking for
shorter hours and better pay.
But I have a vision that goes much
further than that.
Let me tell you where the future
lies for workers in this country.
Everything all right with you and
Thackeray?
You made it quite clear earlier that
you weren't interested in listening
to my problems.
I didn't mean to cut you off.
It's just... I don't know what way to
be with you now.
What's going on with us?
There is no 'us', Victor.
Look, it's been a really long day.
I think I'm just going to go home.
There is trouble brewing on the
continent.
Some say war will come.
Will the great Mr. Selfridge look out
for you?
Your jobs and your loved ones if you
have to go and fight?
Will you accept... with my apologies?
Apologies for what?
For making assumptions, Miss
Hawkins.
I won't make the same mistake again.
In fact I promise to work very, very
hard
to make you see me in a more worthy
light.
I'll accept your gift.
I need a volunteer.
I'll talk you through it.
Don't worry if you stumble at first.
Why should we put up with shoddy work
conditions?
The rich are staying rich and the
poor are getting poorer.
It's time to turn the tables.
Think about how Selfridge would treat
you if you got ill?
Tell him, Ed.
Look, Mr. Huxton... the things that
you're promising us...
..we already have.
The store has a full-time nurse.
Dentist comes every week.
There's all sorts of schemes for
betterment and education.
If you've got it so good, why did you
ask me here tonight? I'm wasting my
time!
I guarantee you'll come crawling back
to us when Selfridge runs off to
America at the first sign of war.
That's my father you're talking
about and he is not a coward.
Did you know he was here?
No.
You need to get out of here now.
Go on, get him out!
Bravo!
Well, I have to hand it to you, Miss
Day, you know how to put on a show.
Well done.
I'm glad you're pleased. I could
tell that you were doubtful this
afternoon.
You were here earlier?
Yes, I just wanted to check out the
venue for myself.
♪ Magnetic Rag
Good of you to invite us along,
Selfridge.
A charming display.
Well, as I recall, I extended the
invitation to Lady Mae.
Thank you so much for coming,
Lady Mae.
Selfridge, while I'm here,
it behoves me to bring up the matter
of her bill.
Nothing to bring up. You closed her
account. We're done on that subject.
A fit of pique on a trying day, you
understand.
Our outstandings will be settled in
due course. Maybe you didn't hear me.
I don't need your money.
Well, if it's all behind us,
I want to discuss some business with
you.
Lord Loxley, this is a party.
Your timing is inappropriate.
Perhaps my lovely wife can persuade
you to hear what I have to say?
Mae?
Oh, I agree with Mr. Selfridge.
This is neither the time nor the
place, dear.
Why don't you stay and having a
couple of drinks?
They're also on the house.
What were you doing, spying on us
like that?
I just wanted to hear what the man
had to say, same as you.
I am working in the Loading Bay.
See Dave? There's them...
Then there's us.
Ever the same.
You're all right, Selfridge.
Ed would be the first to stick up for
his old man.
Are you sure I can't arrange a car
for you?
Thanks, but we're going to walk.
I have a little surprise for Rose.
I'm not sure about this.
Enjoy your evening, ladies.
Good night.
So what's the surprise?
Oh... Just a second, Rose.
Come with us, Mr. Selfridge. Come on.
All work and no play.
I don't want to get in the way.
Don't be silly. Come on. It's a
beautiful evening.
♪ Magnetic Rag
Mm, jellied eels - the finest London
has to offer.
Come on. Where's your sense of
adventure?
Life isn't all fancy restaurants,
you know.
You need to try what your staff eat.
You're full of surprises, Miss Day.
You have no idea.
Mr. Grove? Are you feeling quite well?
I'm drunk, I think.
How pleasant.
It's not pleasant.
How unpleasant, then.
Do you ever wonder...
..what paths you might have taken?
Paths?
In life! In life! In life!
Paths in life!
Oh, yes.
I mean, Doris is a sweet girl and
she's a wonderful mother.
As you know, she's with child once
more.
That'll make... four.
That's quite a handful.
My life is chaos, Mr. Crabb.
Utter, utter chaos.
I don't know when I last had a
good... night's sleep.
And when it is quiet...
I lie awake, worrying about my
girls.
How will they be affected if war
comes?
It's terrifying.
War brings changes, Roger.
We'll have to adapt.
Your daughters will adapt.
And we will do what we can to help
our young men...
..in every way that we can.
From the store?
Of course from the store.
You know, I think...
..as long as His Majesty has men of
your calibre...
..we shall be all right.
You're a true friend and a decent
gentleman.
Steady on, old stick.
Mm!
It's quite a... strong taste.
What do you think, Harry?
Not much, I'm afraid.
Nearly as bad as those snails we had
in Paris last time we were there.
That reminds me, Rose. Did you find
your mysterious Frenchman?
Mysterious Frenchman? Do tell.
Erm... I saw Henri.
I went to his lodgings.
Henri Leclair?
He's in London and you didn't tell
me?
It all... backfired on me, anyway.
Harry... I'll leave you ladies to
your supper.
Harry...
I'll see you at home, Rose.
Harry, wait! Harry, let me explain!
Why did you do that? Delphine...
I was going to explain to Harry about
Henri in my own time.
I'm sorry, Rose.
I didn't mean to make trouble.
Gordon! You were working until now?
I went to a trade union meeting.
Are you all right, son?
I'm fine.
Things got a bit heated but...
it all got sorted in the end.
I just... wanted to see what it was
all about.
Well, you're your own man now, son.
I understand if you need to look at
different sides to different stories.
Night, Pa.
How it must sting...
..being made to look a fool of by a
lowly shopkeeper.
I'm sorry about Henri, Harry.
Tell me where he is and I'll go see
him first thing in the morning.
I don't think that's a good idea.
Why not?
Things haven't turned out too well
for him.
You should have at least just talked
to me about this.
Well, you don't involve me in every
part of your life.
You went to Delphine's today without
telling me.
That is completely different. Henri
is an old and trusted friend.
Harry, I meant well.
I'm not going to apologise again.
We used to share everything Rose.
That is what marriage is supposed to
be about.
Oh, Harry, that's you all over.
You want marriage when it suits you
and drop it when it doesn't.
I told you... I am trying to make
things right.
I am not the one who made a mess of
this marriage. You are!
So you have to live with the
consequences. God knows I've had to.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org